What's New in Version 4.0 - June 2013
This topic lists all the additions and improvements incorporated in InfoWorks ICM 4.0 which were not available in previous versions.

Spatial bookmarks
Spatial Bookmarks are named markers that are used to identify the zoom extents of a particular location or selection of objects. The bookmark can be saved to the network for future reference.

A list of bookmarks for the current network are displayed in the Spatial Bookmarks Window. Click on bookmarks in the window to quickly jump to saved views of areas around the network.

Print layout enhancements
The Print Layout functionality introduced in version 3.5 has been extended to include new frame types: Graph, Grid, Flag, Locator and Scale.

Batch printing from Spatial Bookmarks can now be carried out from the Print Layout View. For a selection of bookmarks, a print can be performed for each of the bookmarked views.

To display the Print Layout View, select Print layout from the File menu.

See Print Layouts for details.

Data flags window
A new Data flags window has been added. This dockable window displays all of the Data Flags in the current master database.

Display the window by selecting Data flags window from the Window menu.

Proximity trace enhancements
The enhancements listed below have been made to the Proximity Trace functionality. See the Proximity Trace View topic for further information.

Option to search selection - it is now possible to apply the proximity search to the current selection of nodes only.
Check box selection of objects to snap - the results list generated by the proximity search now includes a check box column to be used to select which objects to snap together.
Option to snap link to node - in previous versions of InfoWorks ICM, nodes detected by the proximity trace were snapped to their adjacent pipe. In this version, the option to snap the adjacent pipe to the node has been added.
Option to search for pipe vertex - a new Vertex only option has been added to the Proximity Trace View. Check this option to search for nodes that fall within the specified Distance of a pipe vertex.
Ability to use saved states to initialise simulation using a different network
In previous versions of InfoWorks ICM, it was only possible to use a saved state to initialise a simulation if the simulation used exactly the same network as the one used to generate the saved state.

In this version greater flexibility has been introduced. Saved states can be used to initialise simulations using different networks, versions and scenarios to the ones used to generate the saved state.

See the Initial State Simulations topic for details.

Probability Distributed Model (PDM) runoff surface type
The Probability Distributed Model (PDM) has been added as a new runoff volume type choice for Runoff Surfaces.

In order to support the PDM model, the following have been implemented:

New PDM choice in the Runoff volume type field for Runoff Surfaces
New PDM Descriptor object to define PDM rainfall-runoff parameters
New PDM Descriptor field in the subcatchment properties to allow association of descriptor object with subcatchment
Enhancement to RS network data importer to import PDM boundary node data
The PDM Descriptor may also be used to define parameters used to model baseflow and/or soil moisture deficit when using the Simple Runoff Model (SRM) runoff volume model.

Simulations using PDM functionality can only be run if the PDM option is enabled on your licence.

Simple Runoff Model (SRM) runoff surface type
The Simplified Runoff Model (SRM) has been added as a new runoff volume type choice for Runoff Surfaces.

SRM uses a soil moisture deficit (SMD) time series in conjunction with a constant runoff coefficient to modify input rainfall in order to get an effective rainfall. The effective rainfall is then applied to a simplified PDM model. Direct runoff is routed through surface storage defined by a double linear reservoir.

In order to support the SRM model, the following have been implemented:

New SRM choice in the Runoff volume type field for Runoff Surfaces
New Subcatchment SRM fields
Enhancement to RS network data importer to import SRM boundary node data
Soil moisture deficit profiles added to Rainfall Events
See Simple Runoff Model (SRM) for further information.

Simulations using PDM functionality can only be run if the PDM option is enabled on your licence.

Multiple temperature profiles in rainfall events
Temperature profiles are used when modelling snow melt and modelling runoff for subcatchments using the PDM runoff volume model.

In previous versions of InfoWorks, it was only possible to specify one temperature profile in the Rainfall Event.

In this version, multiple profiles may be specified. If the temperature data consists of one profile only, the temperature values in that profile are applied to all rainfall gauges in the event. If the temperature data consists of more than one profile, the temperature Profile IDs must match the Rainfall Profile IDs. The number of profiles must equal the number of rainfall profiles in the event.

Ability to extend line objects using edit geometry tool
It is now possible to extend a line object by adding vertices to the beginning or end of the line using the edit geometry tool .

In edit geometry mode, click on the line to be extended and then hold down CTRL and click the left mouse button at the position of the new vertex. A new vertex will be added to the beginning or the end of the line, depending on whether the nearest vertex to the click location is the first or last existing vertex.

Ground model sampling tool enhancements
In previous versions of InfoWorks ICM, river line elevations could be calculated by sampling the ground model currently loaded on the GeoPlan using the sample dialog displayed via the ModelSample line elevations from ground model menu option.

The dialog has now been replaced with the Update from Ground Model Dialog accessed via the ModelUpdate from ground model menu option and the following enhancements implemented:

New 'Do not insert vertices between existing vertices' option for river lines
A new Do not insert vertices on lines between existing vertices with elevations option has been added to the Update from Ground Model Dialog. When updating River Lines, check this option to prevent new vertices being added between vertices that already have elevation values.

This option is intended for use when extending a river line. Insertion of vertices and ground model sampling can be carried out for the extended parts of the line leaving the original part of the survey line unchanged.

Sample level-area values for storage and pond nodes
The sampling tool has been extended to storage and pond nodes. The level-area values in a storage/pond node with an associated storage area may be generated or updated from a ground model.

Ground model selection box added to dialog
The Ground Model to be used in the updating process can now be chosen using a selection box in the update dialog. If a ground model is currently loaded onto the GeoPlan, this selection box will be automatically populated. (Previously the update was carried out using the currently loaded ground model.)

Breach display improvements
The following improvements have been made to the display of results when Modelling Breaches in Banks and Linear Structures:

Varying bank level display in cross section window
The option to display a varying bank level trace has been added to the Section Properties Dialog of the Cross Section Window. The option is enabled when viewing the cross section for a river reach bank with a breach.

The trace represents the bank level as it changes over time when modelling a breach.

Elevation of all vertices reported in Base linear structure results property sheet
The Base Linear Structure (2D) results property sheet now reports data for all of the structure vertices. Offset and elevation data is displayed in the Varying crest elevation and Varying crest offset grids accessed via the property sheet. (Previously, only values for moving vertices was displayed.)

Varying elevations displayed in 3D network window
Improvements have been made to the 3D Network Window to display the varying elevations of River Reach banks, Inline Banks and Base Linear Structure (2D) objects with breaches.

Ability to select overtopping flow calculation method for 2D bridge and 2D sluice linear structures
In previous versions of InfoWorks ICM, the method used to model flow overtopping 2D sluices or 2D bridges was the fully controlled method, which is prone to oscillations.

In this version, a new Overtopping flow type field has been added to 2D sluices and 2D bridges. This field allows the flow calculation method to be used for overtopping flow to be selected from two options: Free (fully free) and Controlled (fully controlled).

See Sluice Linear Structure (2D) Data Fields and Bridge Linear Structure (2D) Data Fields for further details.

River reach validation improvements
New river reach validation warnings have been added to warn if river reach geometry is inconsistent with the data used to build the reach.

Validation warnings are issued if:

there are changes to the x, y geometry of River Lines used to build the reach, subsequent to the reach being built
there are changes to the x, y geometry of river reach sections or banks used to build the reach boundary, subsequent to the reach boundary being built
See Validation Messages for further details.

Performance enhancement when viewing results with flood theme turned off
When viewing flood extents in simulation results, interpolation of water levels is carried out in order to display the flooding theme. For large models the time taken to complete the interpolation process can be significant.

In previous versions of InfoWorks ICM, loading a Ground Model into the GeoPlan started the water level interpolation process regardless of whether the flood theme was turned on or off.

In this version, interpolation of water levels is now only carried out if the flood theme is turned on, allowing much quicker loading of Ground Models into simulation results.

Ability to delete historical time series data

TSD functionality is only available if the TSD option is enabled on your licence.

The deletion of historical data from time series databases has been implemented in this version of InfoWorks ICM. Deletion is primarily aimed at observed and forecast values unused in simulations for the current master database. However it is possible to keep value latest versions (see below).

This functionality is accessible via the Open As context menu for time series database objects, by selection of the new Delete unused time series data option. The Delete unused time series data dialog, where deletion settings can be set, gets displayed. A deletion upper limit must be set so that InfoWorks ICM knows the values to delete (only values with time stamps older than the specified date). Additionally, users have the option to keep the latest version of a value even if this value has not been used in a simulation. For this, the Keep the latest version of each value even if it has not been used by a simulation option must be enabled. See Delete unused time series data dialog for more information.

Usability improvements to display of 2D mesh element data
The following enhancements have been made to the 2D Zone Mesh Element Properties Dialog:

The dialog has been made modeless, allowing work to be carried out in other parts of the interface while the dialog is open
Multiple mesh element dialogs may be opened at the same time
The element results grid is updated as results are replayed
A Find in geoplan button can be used to select and zoom in on a specified element in the GeoPlan Window
The dialog may be displayed from the 2D zone property sheet via a new Mesh data field
Suppress clashing labels implemented for rotated link labels
In previous versions of InfoWorks ICM, the functionality to prevent drawing of overlapping Auto Labels was not supported for rotated link labels.

In this version, both the Rotate Link Labels and Suppress Clashing Labels options on the Auto Labels and Tooltips Page of the GeoPlan Properties Dialog can be turned on at the same time. When these options are selected, drawing of a rotated label will be prevented if it will be placed on top of another label.

Commit history performance improvement
Getting the full commit history of a network with a large number of commits can take a long time.

To speed up the process of viewing the commit history, the Commit History Dialog now only displays the most recent 100 commits by default. Further information can be displayed by using the Show more button to add the next 100 commits or the Show all button to display the full commit history.

See Viewing the Commit History for further information.

Windows toolbar usability improvement
The windows toolbar has been split into two toolbars to improve usability:

Windows Toolbar - contains buttons used to display different network data windows
Docking Windows Toolbar - contains buttons used to control display of the various Docking Windows available
See Toolbars for further information.

Upgrade to MapXtreme 7.1 allowing support for WMS 1.3
InfoWorks ICM now supports MapXtreme version 7.1.

For InfoWorks ICM users the main benefit of this upgrade is that it is now possible to load WMS version 1.3 images onto the GeoPlan as a background layer when using MapXtreme as the map control.